so lets have a talked about the set interface
as well as hash set said so sets are
generally used less often than lists and
maps that they can in themselves be
extremely useful now where a list is as
an ordered collection of items that can
contain duplicates a set has no defined
ordering number one and the order or
the Oracle documentation define it as
chaotic but secondly a set cannot
contain duplicates so very important
distinctions there in actual fact the lack of
duplicates is the most important
differentiator as there are ordered sets
such as the link hash set and tree set that
will look at together with the
corresponding map objects in a later
video now if you want to ensure that
there is no duplicates in your new
collection then a good way of doing that
is to use a set rather than a list
now the set interface just like
everything else in the collections
framework is generic and it takes single
type just like maps and lists it's
possible to create a raw set but this
is intended really for backwards
compatibility with code created before
generics were added to the Java language and
generally speaking it's not a good idea
to do that
now the set interface defines the basic
methods add remove and clear to maintain
the items in the set as well as offering
a size method and is empty to provide some
information about how much or how many
items are actually in the set whether it is
empty or not now we can also check
if a specific item is in the
set using the contains method now
interesting enough there's no way to
retrieve an item from a set you can check
if something exists and you can iterate
over all the elements in the set but
attempting to get say for example the
10th element from a set isn't possible
you need to use a list for that and we've already
used a set when looking at maps the
keys in the map can be retrieved as set using
the key set method we talked about
before so its therefore not surprising that
everything we said about keys in a map
also applies to items in a set the using
immutable objects as elements in a set to
can cause problems and the behaviors is
undefined if changing an object affects
equal comparisons just as a map
cannot contain itself as a key a set
can't be an element of itself although once
again it will be a bizarre program if it
needed to actually do that now the
best-performing implementation of a set
interface is the hash set class and that
uses hashes to store the items now this
is just like a Hash Map class that we
looked at and in fact the hash set
implementation currently uses a Hash Map
as of Java 8 although of course
implementations may of course change in future
versions of Java now with a set it can be
implemented using a map and it's not
hard to work out that you can actually
use the corresponding map object and use
only the keys ignoring the values so this
is what hash set does and whenever an
element is added to the set it becomes a key
in the underlying Hash Map and a dummy object
is stored as the value so sets can be
useful because operations on them are very
fast and if you're dealing with the
mathematical notion of a set then the Java
collection set types really allow the
usual set operation such as union and
intersection which is pretty cool so
what we going to do is put some of this
theory into practice
gonna create a program to model the
bodies in the solar system and to save
time we won't try and create every
object even without considering
asteroids and comets are nearly two
hundred in our solar systems so we'll just
use a very small set no pun intended there
objects in the solar system can be
grouped into various ways just planets
moons asteroids comets et-cetera also
some of the moons belong to another
group so the moons orbiting a particular
planet so Gettemy for example
belongs to a set of moons in the solar
system and also the set of moons
orbiting Jupiter if that makes sense so to
represent this the program's going to
use a map to store all the heavenly body
objects then declares sets to perform the
grouping of the objects into into a
different types so the actual class I'm going to implement
just has fields for name and the number of earth days
in a year but obviously could contain
far more information about each body but
we don't get into that so what we going
to do is create a first class which is gonna
be called heavenly body so we're gonna do
is open this up now and go to our
package right click the package new java
class we are gonna call this one heavenly
body and were going to make that a final
class
of course we've talk about final now and we are going first create a name so...and will make this final as well...
and we are getting those errors because it hasn't been initialized
but we will initialized in the constructor
...
and we want a set for satellites so....
and we'll import allow that import and we will call this one satellites so let's
create the constructor now and the constructor
we are going to use is just the name in the
orbital period we're not going to have
the set for the satellites variable which is a set pass as
a parameter just those 2 but what we can do in the constructor is initialized it so....
.....and note we don't have to include that that's optional
and we are getting an error most likely because
of the package by default default
options go to project structure and change this to
8 we should find now that's valid
we don't enforce to
actually to put the type in to
generics here because it will default to the
type we've defined on line12 which is a
heavenly body and I made a type their....
...so there is our
initialization for our constructor we also
want a getter for both name and orbital
periods so will just add getters for those
next what we want to do is we want to have the option to add a moon and this is why
we want to pass a parameter which
will be a heavenly body and will call it moon and
we wanna added it to effectively to the hash set so
we're going to put....
...so it is going to accept a heavenly body.....
....so we are returning
whether we succeeded with the addition which of
course should always be the case and
lastly we want to just to return
a getter for satellites probably should have done that previously
with the constructor so will just do a getter and we return
that for satellites like so
instead of returning our object we're
going to create a new to object and
return it so there can be no weird things
happening with our own object and
just for security reasons and we
talked about that in a previously video....
...essentially we are creating a new
hash set of the current
contents of our satellite which again
means that the oode that is calling this object
doesn't have access to our original hash set and we have determined in previous
videos that it would be possible to do
that unless we have specifically do
something like this create a new
hash set so they can't make any changes
let's go back to our main class we are gonna store the heavenly bodies in a map
and also gonna contain a set containing the ones in
the planets so we are going back to the main
and actually we are gonna create a couple of
variables and will put those up here because they are going to be static
private fields for this class so.....
.....
....accept import and its gonna be Java util map standard map and its gonna be...
....
.....
...and will accept that import as well...
alright so let's go ahead and put some
entries in so lets put mercury in so....
...and we are gonna start with Mercury and the orbital period for that is going
to be 88 days and add it to the solar system
so....
...so we are storing it with the key-value pair
into our map again we've seen that code before and
add couple of other ones actually what we do before that we need to add it also
to our set as well because we added it to
the MAP we are gonna add it to the set so....and lets just copy a bit of this code so we can actually do a bit more
instead of typing it we can just do a copy and paste we are gonna add a couple more
lets add two more plants Venus and Earth
so will put Venus and Earth..so will change this to Venus....
...and the days rotation is 225...
..and earth of course is 365 and call that earth and we've added three
planets the next let's actually add a
moon so we're going to put....
....and we should be a little bit different this time we are gonna type....
...
because we got earth up there in line 21 we wanna add
this moon to earth as opposed to adding it
as a planet because of course it's a moon so....
...so what I'm going to do is just grab a whole
bunch of code were going to actually define Mars
Jupiter and various other planets as
well as their moons right down to up to and
including pluto we won't get into a debate about whether
pluto is a planet or not but for now place the code
in and you can see we got the ones we entered we got mars here
on line 29
we've added the 2 moons of mars there and
on line 41 Jupiter and the various
moons part of Jupiter and Saturn Uranus
Neptune and Pluto and again we won't get into a
debate about whether Pluto is a planet for
now so now that we've done that let's actually
do a print out to see that's working so...
...and will put planet in our list of planets....and will just run that to make sure that works and it gives us a list of planets, see planets I've just indented there
so you can see them so that's working ok let's add
some code to display a list of moons lets say
the ones for Jupiter so we can type...
so we are grabbing the Planet jupiter and we are going to put...
.....
...returns list of moons for that particular
object and will indent that as well...so if we run that now you can see we got the planet's working and also the
moons of Jupiter showing Io Gamymede Callisto and Europa so the
program's obviously quite simple at the
moment just creating the heavenly body
objects and adding into the solar
system map and by creating the moons
after of the planet we can also add them to
planets set of moons and the print out
shows that we've done that now it's
interesting that set interface supported
iteration you can see that there with our
code that we are actually dumping out so as
a result displaying all the planets is quite
easy by either adding them which
we've done and similarly we can display
the moons of a planet again as you saw on
lines 84 and quite easy we can
change that we could put Jupiter to Mars there
...change the reference and we should get a list
of moons of Mars and we get the two moons of Mars so obviously
quite useful having that iteration ability
in sets as well so the planet set groups all the
planets together but at the moment there is no
collection representing all the moons in
the solar system now although that would have
been possible to have moon set in main
and add the moons to it as they are created you
can actually easily generate the union
of the set of each planets moons so on set theory
a union of two or more sets is a set
containing all the elements of the sets
so because sets don't contain
duplicates each element in a union will
only appear once even if it was present in
more than one of the sets if that makes
sense so to generate a set union we can use the
add all method of a set so that by looping through the
all the planets and calling there get
satellites method we can generate a set
of moons even though we didn't actually
create one when initializing the data that is
sort of a cool feature of sets so the way we go
about that is after printing down here
on line
88 we can type....so
we are gonna create a new set here a new hash set....and go
through the list of planets....
....and display all the moons
at that point we can put a message there....the list of moons of our hash set on line 88
..and we can just print it out...
.....and if we run that code now you can see
we now got an all moon set effectively hash set
which contains all our moons from all
planets so again we're using it we
are creating a set union with that add all method as you saw their we added on line 90
and again the reason that works is that
sets don't contain duplicates and each
element in a union will only appear once even
if it was present in more than one of
the sets and that's just the beauty of using sets now of
courses more named objects in the solar
system than just planets and moons so the main
class could have included asteroid and
comet sets that would be useful in the
same way as the plant set now a good case
can be made for including a destination
field in heavenly body which will
identify the body as a planet a moon
a comet etc the set will then be built up
by iterating through the entire solar
system and checking the destination
before adding each body to the
appropriate set so the code to assign the
moons in their respective planets would have
got very complicated at that point and
this lectures is about sets not astronomy
so I really tried to keep it
simple here one thing that sometimes
confuses people with code like this is that it's
only references to the objects that are
being stored in the sets so you Europa
for example appears in the solar system map
and the set of satellites for Jupiter
but there's really only one instance of
the heavenly body class for Europa
so this confusion can lead to a common mistake
when dealing with collections where in this
example in our example the sets would
contain the names of the bodies rather
than references so code like that
works but it's the reason behind that is
incorrect
so with the heavenly body class contained
kilobytes information on each body the
faulty reasoning is that it's more efficient
to just store the string name and the sets
or whatever collection type your using for that
matter but a reference to a string is
exactly the same size as a reference to
any other object so nothing is gained and
the code becomes more complex because the
actual object has to be retrieved
from the map before you can get any of its details so that's really an important consideration
now if the ID of the object was an integer rather
than a string then it might be
tempting to store that in the sets but
this is also a false
optimization so on a 32 bit Java Virtual
Machine an object reference
both take 4 bytes which of course we
know a byte is 8 bit so 4 bytes is 32 bits on
a 64 bit machine the object reference
would only be 64 bits which of course is
8 bytes but interestingly enough Java 7
uses compressed pointers that can even
end up using less space than the 32 bit
int now there is actually a brief discussion which I just want to pop up for
you and I put a link to this in the
Resources section in this video so that you can
actually have a look at it so open up a browser and paste that in and you can
see the link and you can find out more
about compressed pointers and how they default in
14 Java version 7 which is interesting
having said all that there is one good reason
for using the body's name in the sets and that's
got nothing to do with using memory more
efficiently
now in previous sections we discussed
making classes immutable and that because
earlier in this section the reason we're
doing that is so they can be used as the
keys in a map and a set of course has a
same restrictions and warnings
as map keys unfortunately though we are gonna go back to the code unfortunately our heavenly
body code can't be made immutable because
new information is constantly being
discovered about planets even in our
solar system
some modeling a more distant solar
system will result in information about
the body changing so we've allowed moons to
be added to planets which is what makes
our heavenly bodies class mutable but that
necessary so to taking Saturn as an
example currently over 60 millions have
been identified many of those have been
discovered since 2000 so it's very
likely that more will have to be added
in the future
also there's quite a few haven't been named yet
and those will be added at some
point so there's a good reason I stopped
adding moons when I got to Jupiter
for that reason so Java doesn't
prohibit using immutable objects and sets
and it's map keys but there is some
recommendations that should be followed
and we'll look at those recommendations
in the next video